README.md, before:

# Scality S3 Server

![S3 Server logo](res/Scality-S3-Server-Logo-Large.png)

[![CircleCI][badgepub]](https://circleci.com/gh/scality/S3)
[![Scality CI][badgepriv]](http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/S3)

## Learn more at [s3.scality.com](http://s3.scality.com)

## Contributing

In order to contribute, please follow the
[Contributing Guidelines](
https://github.com/scality/Guidelines/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Installation

### Dependencies

Building and running the Scality S3 Server requires node.js 6.9.5 and npm v3
. Up-to-date versions can be found at
[Nodesource](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions).

### Clone source code

```shell
git clone https://github.com/scality/S3.git
```

### Install js dependencies

Go to the ./S3 folder,

```shell
npm install
```

## Run it with a file backend

```shell
npm start
```

This starts an S3 server on port 8000. Two additional ports 9990 and
9991 are also open locally for internal transfer of metadata and data,
respectively.

The default access key is accessKey1 with
a secret key of verySecretKey1.

By default the metadata files will be saved in the
localMetadata directory and the data files will be saved
in the localData directory within the ./S3 directory on your
machine.  These directories have been pre-created within the
repository.  If you would like to save the data or metadata in
different locations of your choice, you must specify them with absolute paths.
So, when starting the server:

```shell
mkdir -m 700 $(pwd)/myFavoriteDataPath
mkdir -m 700 $(pwd)/myFavoriteMetadataPath
export S3DATAPATH="$(pwd)/myFavoriteDataPath"
export S3METADATAPATH="$(pwd)/myFavoriteMetadataPath"
npm start
```

## Run it with multiple data backends

```shell
export S3DATA='multiple'
npm start
```

This starts an S3 server on port 8000.
The default access key is accessKey1 with
a secret key of verySecretKey1.

With multiple backends, you have the ability to
choose where each object will be saved by setting
the following header with a locationConstraint on
a PUT request:

```shell
'x-amz-meta-scal-location-constraint':'myLocationConstraint'
```

If no header is sent with a PUT object request, the
location constraint of the bucket will determine
where the data is saved. If the bucket has no location
constraint, the endpoint of the PUT request will be
used to determine location.

See the Configuration section below to learn how to set
location constraints.

## Run it with an in-memory backend

```shell
npm run mem_backend
```

This starts an S3 server on port 8000.
The default access key is accessKey1 with
a secret key of verySecretKey1.

## Setting your own access key and secret key pairs

You can set credentials for many accounts by editing `conf/authdata.json` but if
you want to specify one set of your own credentials, you can use
`SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.

### SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID and SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

These variables specify authentication credentials for an account
named "CustomAccount".

Note: Anything in the `authdata.json` file will be ignored.

```shell
SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=newAccessKey SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=newSecretKey npm start
```

## Run it for continuous integration testing or in production with Docker

[DOCKER.md](DOCKER.md)

## Testing

You can run the unit tests with the following command:

```shell
npm test
```

You can run the multiple backend unit tests with:

```shell
npm run multiple_backend_test
```

You can run the linter with:

```shell
npm run lint
```

Running functional tests locally:

The test suite requires additional tools, **s3cmd** and **Redis** installed
in the environment the tests are running in.

* Install [s3cmd](http://s3tools.org/download)
* Install [redis](https://redis.io/download) and start Redis.
* Add localCache section to your `config.json`:

```
"localCache": {
    "host": REDIS_HOST,
    "port": REDIS_PORT
}
```

where `REDIS_HOST` is your Redis instance IP address (`"127.0.0.1"` if your
Redis is running locally)
and `REDIS_PORT` is your Redis instance port (`6379` by default)

* Add the following to the etc/hosts file on your machine:

```shell
127.0.0.1 bucketwebsitetester.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com
```

* Start the S3 server in memory and run the functional tests:

```shell
npm run mem_backend
npm run ft_test
```

## Configuration

There are three configuration files for your Scality S3 Server:

1. `conf/authdata.json`, described above for authentication

2. `locationConfig.json`, to set up configuration options for

    where data will be saved

3. `config.json`, for general configuration options

### Location Configuration

You must specify at least one locationConstraint in your
locationConfig.json (or leave as pre-configured).

For instance, the following locationConstraint will save data
sent to `myLocationConstraint` to the file backend:

```json
"myLocationConstraint": {
    "type": "file",
    "legacyAwsBehavior": false,
    "details": {}
},
```

Each locationConstraint must include the `type`, `legacyAwsBehavior`,
and `details` keys. `type` indicates which backend will be used
for that region. Currently, mem, file, and scality are the
supported backends. `legacyAwsBehavior` indicates whether the
region will have the same behavior as the AWS S3 'us-east-1'
region. If the locationConstraint type is scality, `details` should
contain connector information for sproxyd. If the
locationConstraint type is mem or file, `details` should be empty.

Once you have your locationConstraints in your locationConfig.json,
you can specify a default locationConstraint for each of your
endpoints.

For instance, the following sets the `localhost` endpoint to the
`myLocationConstraint` data backend defined above:

```json
"restEndpoints": {
     "localhost": "myLocationConstraint"
},
```

If you would like to use an endpoint other than localhost for your
Scality S3 Server, that endpoint MUST be listed in your `restEndpoints`.
Otherwise if your server is running with a:

- __file backend__: your default location constraint will be `file`

- __memory backend__: your default location constraint will be `mem`

## Endpoints

Note that our S3server supports both:

- path-style: http://myhostname.com/mybucket
- hosted-style: http://mybucket.myhostname.com

However, hosted-style requests will not hit the server if you are
using an ip address for your host.
So, make sure you are using path-style requests in that case.
For instance, if you are using the AWS SDK for JavaScript,
you would instantiate your client like this:

```js
const s3 = new aws.S3({
   endpoint: 'http://127.0.0.1:8000',
   s3ForcePathStyle: true,
});
```

[badgepub]: https://circleci.com/gh/scality/S3.svg?style=svg
[badgepriv]: http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/S3.svg?style=svg&circle-token=1f105b7518b53853b5b7cf72302a3f75d8c598ae

## Getting started: List of applications that have been tested with S3 Server

### GUI

#### [Cyberduck](https://cyberduck.io/?l=en)

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n2MCt4ukUg
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IyXHcu4uqgU

#### [Cloud Explorer](https://www.linux-toys.com/?p=945)

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2hhtBtmBSxE

#### [CloudBerry Lab](http://www.cloudberrylab.com)

- https://youtu.be/IjIx8g_o0gY

### Command Line Tools

#### [s3curl](https://github.com/rtdp/s3curl)

https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/tests/functional/s3curl/s3curl.pl

#### [aws-cli](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/)

`~/.aws/credentials` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\credentials` on Windows

```shell
[default]
aws_access_key_id = accessKey1
aws_secret_access_key = verySecretKey1
```

`~/.aws/config` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\config` on Windows

```shell
[default]
region = us-east-1
```

Note: `us-east-1` is the default region, but you can specify any region.

See all buckets:

```shell
aws s3 ls --endpoint-url=http://localhost:8000
```

Create bucket:

```shell
aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:8000 s3 mb s3://mybucket
```

#### [s3cmd](http://s3tools.org/s3cmd)

If using s3cmd as a client to S3 be aware that v4 signature format
is buggy in s3cmd versions < 1.6.1.

`~/.s3cfg` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.s3cfg` on Windows

```shell
[default]
access_key = accessKey1
secret_key = verySecretKey1
host_base = localhost:8000
host_bucket = %(bucket).localhost:8000
signature_v2 = False
use_https = False
```

See all buckets:

```shell
s3cmd ls
```

#### [rclone](http://rclone.org/s3/)

`~/.rclone.conf` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.rclone.conf` on Windows

```shell
[remote]
type = s3
env_auth = false
access_key_id = accessKey1
secret_access_key = verySecretKey1
region = other-v2-signature
endpoint = http://localhost:8000
location_constraint =
acl = private
server_side_encryption =
storage_class =
```

See all buckets:

```shell
rclone lsd remote:
```

### JavaScript

#### [AWS JavaScript SDK](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html)

```javascript
const AWS = require('aws-sdk');

const s3 = new AWS.S3({
    accessKeyId: 'accessKey1',
    secretAccessKey: 'verySecretKey1',
    endpoint: 'localhost:8000',
    sslEnabled: false,
    s3ForcePathStyle: true,
});
```

### JAVA

#### [AWS JAVA SDK](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaSDK/latest/javadoc/com/amazonaws/services/s3/AmazonS3Client.html)

```java
import com.amazonaws.auth.AWSCredentials;
import com.amazonaws.auth.BasicAWSCredentials;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.AmazonS3;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.AmazonS3Client;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.S3ClientOptions;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.model.Bucket;

public class S3 {

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        AWSCredentials credentials = new BasicAWSCredentials("accessKey1",
        "verySecretKey1");

        // Create a client connection based on credentials
        AmazonS3 s3client = new AmazonS3Client(credentials);
        s3client.setEndpoint("http://localhost:8000");
        // Using path-style requests
        // (deprecated) s3client.setS3ClientOptions(new S3ClientOptions().withPathStyleAccess(true));
        s3client.setS3ClientOptions(S3ClientOptions.builder().setPathStyleAccess(true).build());

        // Create bucket
        String bucketName = "javabucket";
        s3client.createBucket(bucketName);

        // List off all buckets
        for (Bucket bucket : s3client.listBuckets()) {
            System.out.println(" - " + bucket.getName());
        }
    }
}
```

## Ruby

### [AWS SDK for Ruby - Version 2](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/)

```ruby
require 'aws-sdk'

s3 = Aws::S3::Client.new(
  :access_key_id => 'accessKey1',
  :secret_access_key => 'verySecretKey1',
  :endpoint => 'http://localhost:8000',
  :force_path_style => true
)

resp = s3.list_buckets
```

#### [fog](http://fog.io/storage/)

```ruby
require "fog"

connection = Fog::Storage.new(
{
    :provider => "AWS",
    :aws_access_key_id => 'accessKey1',
    :aws_secret_access_key => 'verySecretKey1',
    :endpoint => 'http://localhost:8000',
    :path_style => true,
    :scheme => 'http',
})
```

### Python

#### [boto2](http://boto.cloudhackers.com/en/latest/ref/s3.html)

```python
import boto
from boto.s3.connection import S3Connection, OrdinaryCallingFormat


connection = S3Connection(
    aws_access_key_id='accessKey1',
    aws_secret_access_key='verySecretKey1',
    is_secure=False,
    port=8000,
    calling_format=OrdinaryCallingFormat(),
    host='localhost'
)

connection.create_bucket('mybucket')
```

#### [boto3](http://boto3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

``` python
import boto3
client = boto3.client(
    's3',
    aws_access_key_id='accessKey1',
    aws_secret_access_key='verySecretKey1',
    endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000'
)

lists = client.list_buckets()
```

### PHP

Should use v3 over v2 because v2 would create virtual-hosted style URLs
while v3 generates path-style URLs.

#### [AWS PHP SDK v3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-sdk-php/v3/guide)

```php
use Aws\S3\S3Client;

$client = S3Client::factory([
    'region'  => 'us-east-1',
    'version'   => 'latest',
    'endpoint' => 'http://localhost:8000',
    'credentials' => [
         'key'    => 'accessKey1',
         'secret' => 'verySecretKey1'
    ]
]);

$client->createBucket(array(
    'Bucket' => 'bucketphp',
));
```

Commit message:

FT: Set us-east-1 as default
On put bucket, if no locationConstraint is provided
and the endpoint hit is not in the config (since it is
an IP address and path style request), use us-east-1
as locationConstraint.

README.md, after:

# Scality S3 Server

![S3 Server logo](res/Scality-S3-Server-Logo-Large.png)

[![CircleCI][badgepub]](https://circleci.com/gh/scality/S3)
[![Scality CI][badgepriv]](http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/S3)

## Learn more at [s3.scality.com](http://s3.scality.com)

## Contributing

In order to contribute, please follow the
[Contributing Guidelines](
https://github.com/scality/Guidelines/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Installation

### Dependencies

Building and running the Scality S3 Server requires node.js 6.9.5 and npm v3
. Up-to-date versions can be found at
[Nodesource](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions).

### Clone source code

```shell
git clone https://github.com/scality/S3.git
```

### Install js dependencies

Go to the ./S3 folder,

```shell
npm install
```

## Run it with a file backend

```shell
npm start
```

This starts an S3 server on port 8000. Two additional ports 9990 and
9991 are also open locally for internal transfer of metadata and data,
respectively.

The default access key is accessKey1 with
a secret key of verySecretKey1.

By default the metadata files will be saved in the
localMetadata directory and the data files will be saved
in the localData directory within the ./S3 directory on your
machine.  These directories have been pre-created within the
repository.  If you would like to save the data or metadata in
different locations of your choice, you must specify them with absolute paths.
So, when starting the server:

```shell
mkdir -m 700 $(pwd)/myFavoriteDataPath
mkdir -m 700 $(pwd)/myFavoriteMetadataPath
export S3DATAPATH="$(pwd)/myFavoriteDataPath"
export S3METADATAPATH="$(pwd)/myFavoriteMetadataPath"
npm start
```

## Run it with multiple data backends

```shell
export S3DATA='multiple'
npm start
```

This starts an S3 server on port 8000.
The default access key is accessKey1 with
a secret key of verySecretKey1.

With multiple backends, you have the ability to
choose where each object will be saved by setting
the following header with a locationConstraint on
a PUT request:

```shell
'x-amz-meta-scal-location-constraint':'myLocationConstraint'
```

If no header is sent with a PUT object request, the
location constraint of the bucket will determine
where the data is saved. If the bucket has no location
constraint, the endpoint of the PUT request will be
used to determine location.

See the Configuration section below to learn how to set
location constraints.

## Run it with an in-memory backend

```shell
npm run mem_backend
```

This starts an S3 server on port 8000.
The default access key is accessKey1 with
a secret key of verySecretKey1.

## Setting your own access key and secret key pairs

You can set credentials for many accounts by editing `conf/authdata.json` but if
you want to specify one set of your own credentials, you can use
`SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.

### SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID and SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

These variables specify authentication credentials for an account
named "CustomAccount".

Note: Anything in the `authdata.json` file will be ignored.

```shell
SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=newAccessKey SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=newSecretKey npm start
```

## Run it for continuous integration testing or in production with Docker

[DOCKER.md](DOCKER.md)

## Testing

You can run the unit tests with the following command:

```shell
npm test
```

You can run the multiple backend unit tests with:

```shell
npm run multiple_backend_test
```

You can run the linter with:

```shell
npm run lint
```

Running functional tests locally:

The test suite requires additional tools, **s3cmd** and **Redis** installed
in the environment the tests are running in.

* Install [s3cmd](http://s3tools.org/download)
* Install [redis](https://redis.io/download) and start Redis.
* Add localCache section to your `config.json`:

```
"localCache": {
    "host": REDIS_HOST,
    "port": REDIS_PORT
}
```

where `REDIS_HOST` is your Redis instance IP address (`"127.0.0.1"` if your
Redis is running locally)
and `REDIS_PORT` is your Redis instance port (`6379` by default)

* Add the following to the etc/hosts file on your machine:

```shell
127.0.0.1 bucketwebsitetester.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com
```

* Start the S3 server in memory and run the functional tests:

```shell
npm run mem_backend
npm run ft_test
```

## Configuration

There are three configuration files for your Scality S3 Server:

1. `conf/authdata.json`, described above for authentication

2. `locationConfig.json`, to set up configuration options for

    where data will be saved

3. `config.json`, for general configuration options

### Location Configuration

You must specify at least one locationConstraint in your
locationConfig.json (or leave as pre-configured).

You must also specify 'us-east-1' as a locationConstraint so
if you only define one locationConstraint, that would be it.
If you put a bucket to an unknown endpoint and do not specify
a locationConstraint in the put bucket call, us-east-1 will
be used.

For instance, the following locationConstraint will save data
sent to `myLocationConstraint` to the file backend:

```json
"myLocationConstraint": {
    "type": "file",
    "legacyAwsBehavior": false,
    "details": {}
},
```

Each locationConstraint must include the `type`, `legacyAwsBehavior`,
and `details` keys. `type` indicates which backend will be used
for that region. Currently, mem, file, and scality are the
supported backends. `legacyAwsBehavior` indicates whether the
region will have the same behavior as the AWS S3 'us-east-1'
region. If the locationConstraint type is scality, `details` should
contain connector information for sproxyd. If the
locationConstraint type is mem or file, `details` should be empty.

Once you have your locationConstraints in your locationConfig.json,
you can specify a default locationConstraint for each of your
endpoints.

For instance, the following sets the `localhost` endpoint to the
`myLocationConstraint` data backend defined above:

```json
"restEndpoints": {
     "localhost": "myLocationConstraint"
},
```

If you would like to use an endpoint other than localhost for your
Scality S3 Server, that endpoint MUST be listed in your `restEndpoints`.
Otherwise if your server is running with a:

- __file backend__: your default location constraint will be `file`

- __memory backend__: your default location constraint will be `mem`

## Endpoints

Note that our S3server supports both:

- path-style: http://myhostname.com/mybucket
- hosted-style: http://mybucket.myhostname.com

However, hosted-style requests will not hit the server if you are
using an ip address for your host.
So, make sure you are using path-style requests in that case.
For instance, if you are using the AWS SDK for JavaScript,
you would instantiate your client like this:

```js
const s3 = new aws.S3({
   endpoint: 'http://127.0.0.1:8000',
   s3ForcePathStyle: true,
});
```

[badgepub]: https://circleci.com/gh/scality/S3.svg?style=svg
[badgepriv]: http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/S3.svg?style=svg&circle-token=1f105b7518b53853b5b7cf72302a3f75d8c598ae

## Getting started: List of applications that have been tested with S3 Server

### GUI

#### [Cyberduck](https://cyberduck.io/?l=en)

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n2MCt4ukUg
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IyXHcu4uqgU

#### [Cloud Explorer](https://www.linux-toys.com/?p=945)

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2hhtBtmBSxE

#### [CloudBerry Lab](http://www.cloudberrylab.com)

- https://youtu.be/IjIx8g_o0gY

### Command Line Tools

#### [s3curl](https://github.com/rtdp/s3curl)

https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/tests/functional/s3curl/s3curl.pl

#### [aws-cli](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/)

`~/.aws/credentials` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\credentials` on Windows

```shell
[default]
aws_access_key_id = accessKey1
aws_secret_access_key = verySecretKey1
```

`~/.aws/config` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\config` on Windows

```shell
[default]
region = us-east-1
```

Note: `us-east-1` is the default region, but you can specify any region.

See all buckets:

```shell
aws s3 ls --endpoint-url=http://localhost:8000
```

Create bucket:

```shell
aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:8000 s3 mb s3://mybucket
```

#### [s3cmd](http://s3tools.org/s3cmd)

If using s3cmd as a client to S3 be aware that v4 signature format
is buggy in s3cmd versions < 1.6.1.

`~/.s3cfg` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.s3cfg` on Windows

```shell
[default]
access_key = accessKey1
secret_key = verySecretKey1
host_base = localhost:8000
host_bucket = %(bucket).localhost:8000
signature_v2 = False
use_https = False
```

See all buckets:

```shell
s3cmd ls
```

#### [rclone](http://rclone.org/s3/)

`~/.rclone.conf` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
`C:\Users\USERNAME\.rclone.conf` on Windows

```shell
[remote]
type = s3
env_auth = false
access_key_id = accessKey1
secret_access_key = verySecretKey1
region = other-v2-signature
endpoint = http://localhost:8000
location_constraint =
acl = private
server_side_encryption =
storage_class =
```

See all buckets:

```shell
rclone lsd remote:
```

### JavaScript

#### [AWS JavaScript SDK](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html)

```javascript
const AWS = require('aws-sdk');

const s3 = new AWS.S3({
    accessKeyId: 'accessKey1',
    secretAccessKey: 'verySecretKey1',
    endpoint: 'localhost:8000',
    sslEnabled: false,
    s3ForcePathStyle: true,
});
```

### JAVA

#### [AWS JAVA SDK](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaSDK/latest/javadoc/com/amazonaws/services/s3/AmazonS3Client.html)

```java
import com.amazonaws.auth.AWSCredentials;
import com.amazonaws.auth.BasicAWSCredentials;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.AmazonS3;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.AmazonS3Client;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.S3ClientOptions;
import com.amazonaws.services.s3.model.Bucket;

public class S3 {

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        AWSCredentials credentials = new BasicAWSCredentials("accessKey1",
        "verySecretKey1");

        // Create a client connection based on credentials
        AmazonS3 s3client = new AmazonS3Client(credentials);
        s3client.setEndpoint("http://localhost:8000");
        // Using path-style requests
        // (deprecated) s3client.setS3ClientOptions(new S3ClientOptions().withPathStyleAccess(true));
        s3client.setS3ClientOptions(S3ClientOptions.builder().setPathStyleAccess(true).build());

        // Create bucket
        String bucketName = "javabucket";
        s3client.createBucket(bucketName);

        // List off all buckets
        for (Bucket bucket : s3client.listBuckets()) {
            System.out.println(" - " + bucket.getName());
        }
    }
}
```

## Ruby

### [AWS SDK for Ruby - Version 2](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/)

```ruby
require 'aws-sdk'

s3 = Aws::S3::Client.new(
  :access_key_id => 'accessKey1',
  :secret_access_key => 'verySecretKey1',
  :endpoint => 'http://localhost:8000',
  :force_path_style => true
)

resp = s3.list_buckets
```

#### [fog](http://fog.io/storage/)

```ruby
require "fog"

connection = Fog::Storage.new(
{
    :provider => "AWS",
    :aws_access_key_id => 'accessKey1',
    :aws_secret_access_key => 'verySecretKey1',
    :endpoint => 'http://localhost:8000',
    :path_style => true,
    :scheme => 'http',
})
```

### Python

#### [boto2](http://boto.cloudhackers.com/en/latest/ref/s3.html)

```python
import boto
from boto.s3.connection import S3Connection, OrdinaryCallingFormat


connection = S3Connection(
    aws_access_key_id='accessKey1',
    aws_secret_access_key='verySecretKey1',
    is_secure=False,
    port=8000,
    calling_format=OrdinaryCallingFormat(),
    host='localhost'
)

connection.create_bucket('mybucket')
```

#### [boto3](http://boto3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

``` python
import boto3
client = boto3.client(
    's3',
    aws_access_key_id='accessKey1',
    aws_secret_access_key='verySecretKey1',
    endpoint_url='http://localhost:8000'
)

lists = client.list_buckets()
```

### PHP

Should use v3 over v2 because v2 would create virtual-hosted style URLs
while v3 generates path-style URLs.

#### [AWS PHP SDK v3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-sdk-php/v3/guide)

```php
use Aws\S3\S3Client;

$client = S3Client::factory([
    'region'  => 'us-east-1',
    'version'   => 'latest',
    'endpoint' => 'http://localhost:8000',
    'credentials' => [
         'key'    => 'accessKey1',
         'secret' => 'verySecretKey1'
    ]
]);

$client->createBucket(array(
    'Bucket' => 'bucketphp',
));
```
