docs/DOCKER.rst, before:

Docker
======

-  `For continuous integration with
   Docker <#for-continuous-integration-with-docker>`__
-  `Environment Variables <#environment-variables>`__
-  `In production with Docker <#in-production-with-docker>`__
-  `Using Docker Volume in
   production <#using-docker-volume-in-production>`__
-  `Adding modifying or deleting accounts or users
   credentials <#adding-modifying-or-deleting-accounts-or-users-credentials>`__
-  `Specifying your own host name <#specifying-your-own-host-name>`__
-  `Running as an unprivileged
   user <#running-as-an-unprivileged-user>`__

For continuous integration with Docker
--------------------------------------

When you start the Docker Scality Zenko CloudServer image, you can adjust the
configuration of the Scality Zenko CloudServer instance by passing one or more
environment variables on the docker run command line.

Environment Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S3DATA=multiple
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This runs Scality Zenko CloudServer with multiple data backends. `More
info <../GETTING_STARTED/#location-configuration>`__

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e S3DATA=multiple scality/s3server

For running an S3 AWS backend, you will have to add a new section
(with the ``aws_s3`` location type) to your ``locationConfig.json`` file:

.. code:: json

    "aws-test": {
        "type": "aws_s3",
        "details": {
            "awsEndpoint": "s3.amazonaws.com",
            "bucketName": "yourawss3bucket",
            "bucketMatch": true,
            "credentialsProfile": "default"
        }
    }

You will also have to mount your AWS credentials file:
``-v ~/.aws/credentials:/root/.aws/credentials`` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
``-v C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\credential:/root/.aws/credentials`` on Windows

.. code:: shell

    docker run --name s3server -p 8000:8000
    -v $(pwd)/locationConfig.json:/usr/src/app/locationConfig.json
    -v ~/.aws/credentials:/root/.aws/credentials -e S3DATA=multiple scality/s3server

ENDPOINT
^^^^^^^^^^

This variable specifies your endpoint. If you have a domain such as
new.host.com, by specifying that here, you and your users can direct s3
server requests to new.host.com.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e ENDPOINT=new.host.com scality/s3server

Note: In your ``/etc/hosts`` file on Linux, OS X, or Unix with root
permissions, make sure to associate 127.0.0.1 with ``new.host.com``

SCALITY\_ACCESS\_KEY\_ID and SCALITY\_SECRET\_ACCESS\_KEY
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These variables specify authentication credentials for an account named
"CustomAccount".

You can set credentials for many accounts by editing
``conf/authdata.json`` (see below for further info), but if you just
want to specify one set of your own, you can use these environment
variables.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=newAccessKey
    -e SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=newSecretKey scality/s3server

Note: Anything in the ``authdata.json`` file will be ignored. Note: The
old ``ACCESS_KEY`` and ``SECRET_KEY`` environment variables are now
deprecated

LOG\_LEVEL
^^^^^^^^^^

This variable allows you to change the log level: info, debug or trace.
The default is info. Debug will give you more detailed logs and trace
will give you the most detailed.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e LOG_LEVEL=trace scality/s3server

SSL
^^^

This variable set to true allows you to run S3 with SSL:

**Note1**: You also need to specify the ENDPOINT environment variable.
**Note2**: In your ``/etc/hosts`` file on Linux, OS X, or Unix with root
permissions, make sure to associate 127.0.0.1 with ``<YOUR_ENDPOINT>``

**Warning**: These certs, being self-signed (and the CA being generated
inside the container) will be untrusted by any clients, and could
disappear on a container upgrade. That's ok as long as it's for quick
testing. Also, best security practice for non-testing would be to use an
extra container to do SSL/TLS termination such as haproxy/nginx/stunnel
to limit what an exploit on either component could expose, as well as
certificates in a mounted volume

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e SSL=TRUE -e ENDPOINT=<YOUR_ENDPOINT>
    scality/s3server

More information about how to use S3 server with SSL
`here <https://s3.scality.com/v1.0/page/scality-with-ssl>`__

LISTEN\_ADDR
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This variable instructs the Zenko CloudServer, and its data and metadata
components to listen on the specified address. This allows starting the data
or metadata servers as standalone services, for example.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server-data -p 9991:9991 -e LISTEN_ADDR=0.0.0.0
    scality/s3server npm run start_dataserver


DATA\_HOST and METADATA\_HOST
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These variables configure the data and metadata servers to use,
usually when they are running on another host and only starting the stateless
Zenko CloudServer.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -e DATA_HOST=s3server-data
    -e METADATA_HOST=s3server-metadata scality/s3server npm run start_s3server

REDIS\_HOST
^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this variable to connect to the redis cache server on another host than
localhost.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000
    -e REDIS_HOST=my-redis-server.example.com scality/s3server

REDIS\_PORT
^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this variable to connect to the redis cache server on another port than
the default 6379.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000
    -e REDIS_PORT=6379 scality/s3server

In production with Docker
-------------------------

Using Docker Volume in production
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zenko CloudServer runs with a file backend by default.

So, by default, the data is stored inside your Zenko CloudServer Docker
container.

However, if you want your data and metadata to persist, you **MUST** use
Docker volumes to host your data and metadata outside your Zenko CloudServer
Docker container. Otherwise, the data and metadata will be destroyed
when you erase the container.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -­v $(pwd)/data:/usr/src/app/localData -­v $(pwd)/metadata:/usr/src/app/localMetadata
    -p 8000:8000 ­-d scality/s3server

This command mounts the host directory, ``./data``, into the container
at /usr/src/app/localData and the host directory, ``./metadata``, into
the container at /usr/src/app/localMetaData. It can also be any host
mount point, like ``/mnt/data`` and ``/mnt/metadata``.

Adding modifying or deleting accounts or users credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Create locally a customized ``authdata.json``.

2. Use `Docker
   Volume <https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/>`__

to override the default ``authdata.json`` through a docker file mapping.
For example:

.. code:: shell

    docker run -v $(pwd)/authdata.json:/usr/src/app/conf/authdata.json -p 8000:8000 -d
    scality/s3server

Specifying your own host name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To specify a host name (e.g. s3.domain.name), you can provide your own
`config.json <https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/config.json>`__
using `Docker
Volume <https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/>`__.

First add a new key-value pair in the restEndpoints section of your
config.json. The key in the key-value pair should be the host name you
would like to add and the value is the default location\_constraint for
this endpoint.

For example, ``s3.example.com`` is mapped to ``us-east-1`` which is one
of the ``location_constraints`` listed in your locationConfig.json file
`here <https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/locationConfig.json>`__.

More information about location configuration
`here <https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/README.md#location-configuration>`__

.. code:: json

    "restEndpoints": {
        "localhost": "file",
        "127.0.0.1": "file",
        ...
        "s3.example.com": "us-east-1"
    },

Then, run your Scality S3 Server using `Docker
Volume <https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/>`__:

.. code:: shell

    docker run -v $(pwd)/config.json:/usr/src/app/config.json -p 8000:8000 -d scality/s3server

Your local ``config.json`` file will override the default one through a
docker file mapping.

Running as an unprivileged user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zenko CloudServer runs as root by default.

You can change that by modifing the dockerfile and specifying a user
before the entrypoint.

The user needs to exist within the container, and own the folder
**/usr/src/app** for Scality Zenko CloudServer to run properly.

For instance, you can modify these lines in the dockerfile:

.. code:: shell

    ...
    && groupadd -r -g 1001 scality \
    && useradd -u 1001 -g 1001 -d /usr/src/app -r scality \
    && chown -R scality:scality /usr/src/app

    ...

    USER scality
    ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/src/app/docker-entrypoint.sh"]

Commit message:

FIX: Object Copy to same location

docs/DOCKER.rst, after:

Docker
======

-  `For continuous integration with
   Docker <#for-continuous-integration-with-docker>`__
-  `Environment Variables <#environment-variables>`__
-  `In production with Docker <#in-production-with-docker>`__
-  `Using Docker Volume in
   production <#using-docker-volume-in-production>`__
-  `Adding modifying or deleting accounts or users
   credentials <#adding-modifying-or-deleting-accounts-or-users-credentials>`__
-  `Specifying your own host name <#specifying-your-own-host-name>`__
-  `Running as an unprivileged
   user <#running-as-an-unprivileged-user>`__

For continuous integration with Docker
--------------------------------------

When you start the Docker Scality Zenko CloudServer image, you can adjust the
configuration of the Scality Zenko CloudServer instance by passing one or more
environment variables on the docker run command line.

Environment Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S3DATA=multiple
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This runs Scality Zenko CloudServer with multiple data backends. `More
info <../GETTING_STARTED/#location-configuration>`__

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e S3DATA=multiple scality/s3server

For running an S3 AWS backend, you will have to add a new section
(with the ``aws_s3`` location type) to your ``locationConfig.json`` file:

.. code:: json

    "aws-test": {
        "type": "aws_s3",
        "details": {
            "awsEndpoint": "s3.amazonaws.com",
            "bucketName": "yourawss3bucket",
            "bucketMatch": true,
            "credentialsProfile": "default"
        }
    }

You will also have to mount your AWS credentials file:
``-v ~/.aws/credentials:/root/.aws/credentials`` on Linux, OS X, or Unix or
``-v C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\credential:/root/.aws/credentials`` on Windows

.. code:: shell

    docker run --name s3server -p 8000:8000
    -v $(pwd)/locationConfig.json:/usr/src/app/locationConfig.json
    -v ~/.aws/credentials:/root/.aws/credentials -e S3DATA=multiple scality/s3server

NOTE: One account can't copy to another account with a source and
destination on real AWS unless the account associated with the
access Key/secret Key pairs used for the destination bucket has rights
to get in the source bucket. ACL's would have to be updated
on AWS directly to enable this.

ENDPOINT
^^^^^^^^^^

This variable specifies your endpoint. If you have a domain such as
new.host.com, by specifying that here, you and your users can direct s3
server requests to new.host.com.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e ENDPOINT=new.host.com scality/s3server

Note: In your ``/etc/hosts`` file on Linux, OS X, or Unix with root
permissions, make sure to associate 127.0.0.1 with ``new.host.com``

SCALITY\_ACCESS\_KEY\_ID and SCALITY\_SECRET\_ACCESS\_KEY
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These variables specify authentication credentials for an account named
"CustomAccount".

You can set credentials for many accounts by editing
``conf/authdata.json`` (see below for further info), but if you just
want to specify one set of your own, you can use these environment
variables.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e SCALITY_ACCESS_KEY_ID=newAccessKey
    -e SCALITY_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=newSecretKey scality/s3server

Note: Anything in the ``authdata.json`` file will be ignored. Note: The
old ``ACCESS_KEY`` and ``SECRET_KEY`` environment variables are now
deprecated

LOG\_LEVEL
^^^^^^^^^^

This variable allows you to change the log level: info, debug or trace.
The default is info. Debug will give you more detailed logs and trace
will give you the most detailed.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e LOG_LEVEL=trace scality/s3server

SSL
^^^

This variable set to true allows you to run S3 with SSL:

**Note1**: You also need to specify the ENDPOINT environment variable.
**Note2**: In your ``/etc/hosts`` file on Linux, OS X, or Unix with root
permissions, make sure to associate 127.0.0.1 with ``<YOUR_ENDPOINT>``

**Warning**: These certs, being self-signed (and the CA being generated
inside the container) will be untrusted by any clients, and could
disappear on a container upgrade. That's ok as long as it's for quick
testing. Also, best security practice for non-testing would be to use an
extra container to do SSL/TLS termination such as haproxy/nginx/stunnel
to limit what an exploit on either component could expose, as well as
certificates in a mounted volume

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000 -e SSL=TRUE -e ENDPOINT=<YOUR_ENDPOINT>
    scality/s3server

More information about how to use S3 server with SSL
`here <https://s3.scality.com/v1.0/page/scality-with-ssl>`__

LISTEN\_ADDR
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This variable instructs the Zenko CloudServer, and its data and metadata
components to listen on the specified address. This allows starting the data
or metadata servers as standalone services, for example.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server-data -p 9991:9991 -e LISTEN_ADDR=0.0.0.0
    scality/s3server npm run start_dataserver


DATA\_HOST and METADATA\_HOST
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These variables configure the data and metadata servers to use,
usually when they are running on another host and only starting the stateless
Zenko CloudServer.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -e DATA_HOST=s3server-data
    -e METADATA_HOST=s3server-metadata scality/s3server npm run start_s3server

REDIS\_HOST
^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this variable to connect to the redis cache server on another host than
localhost.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000
    -e REDIS_HOST=my-redis-server.example.com scality/s3server

REDIS\_PORT
^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this variable to connect to the redis cache server on another port than
the default 6379.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -d --name s3server -p 8000:8000
    -e REDIS_PORT=6379 scality/s3server

In production with Docker
-------------------------

Using Docker Volume in production
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zenko CloudServer runs with a file backend by default.

So, by default, the data is stored inside your Zenko CloudServer Docker
container.

However, if you want your data and metadata to persist, you **MUST** use
Docker volumes to host your data and metadata outside your Zenko CloudServer
Docker container. Otherwise, the data and metadata will be destroyed
when you erase the container.

.. code:: shell

    docker run -­v $(pwd)/data:/usr/src/app/localData -­v $(pwd)/metadata:/usr/src/app/localMetadata
    -p 8000:8000 ­-d scality/s3server

This command mounts the host directory, ``./data``, into the container
at /usr/src/app/localData and the host directory, ``./metadata``, into
the container at /usr/src/app/localMetaData. It can also be any host
mount point, like ``/mnt/data`` and ``/mnt/metadata``.

Adding modifying or deleting accounts or users credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Create locally a customized ``authdata.json``.

2. Use `Docker
   Volume <https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/>`__

to override the default ``authdata.json`` through a docker file mapping.
For example:

.. code:: shell

    docker run -v $(pwd)/authdata.json:/usr/src/app/conf/authdata.json -p 8000:8000 -d
    scality/s3server

Specifying your own host name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To specify a host name (e.g. s3.domain.name), you can provide your own
`config.json <https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/config.json>`__
using `Docker
Volume <https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/>`__.

First add a new key-value pair in the restEndpoints section of your
config.json. The key in the key-value pair should be the host name you
would like to add and the value is the default location\_constraint for
this endpoint.

For example, ``s3.example.com`` is mapped to ``us-east-1`` which is one
of the ``location_constraints`` listed in your locationConfig.json file
`here <https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/locationConfig.json>`__.

More information about location configuration
`here <https://github.com/scality/S3/blob/master/README.md#location-configuration>`__

.. code:: json

    "restEndpoints": {
        "localhost": "file",
        "127.0.0.1": "file",
        ...
        "s3.example.com": "us-east-1"
    },

Then, run your Scality S3 Server using `Docker
Volume <https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/>`__:

.. code:: shell

    docker run -v $(pwd)/config.json:/usr/src/app/config.json -p 8000:8000 -d scality/s3server

Your local ``config.json`` file will override the default one through a
docker file mapping.

Running as an unprivileged user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zenko CloudServer runs as root by default.

You can change that by modifing the dockerfile and specifying a user
before the entrypoint.

The user needs to exist within the container, and own the folder
**/usr/src/app** for Scality Zenko CloudServer to run properly.

For instance, you can modify these lines in the dockerfile:

.. code:: shell

    ...
    && groupadd -r -g 1001 scality \
    && useradd -u 1001 -g 1001 -d /usr/src/app -r scality \
    && chown -R scality:scality /usr/src/app

    ...

    USER scality
    ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/src/app/docker-entrypoint.sh"]
